I am Gerald Parker and I have been asked to reflect
upon my background and my relation in the life of
Dr. U.E. Marnie.
I am Gerald Parker and I have been asked to reflect
upon my background and my relation in the life of
Dr. U.E. Marnie. Dr. Brown discussion of his life
and habits is a hard act to follow. I was raised in
Navarra County, which is located approximately
50 miles southeast of Dallas. My family consisted
of my mother, father, and three sons. I was the
oldest. Our family made a living by dry land
farming and ranching. I saved my family because we
all had to work very hard just to make a living
during the Depression. My mother and father were
honest, God-fearing people, and they expected
the same from their sons. About the time I was in the
seventh grade, my dad accepted a position
managing certain aspects of a farm and ranch owned
by Mr. R.L. Wheelock, who made his money in the oil
business. We lived three miles from the Powell
High School, and if we didn't want to walk, we could
run. While in high school, I worked with the field
cattle and the horses at the ranch. At that time, I
decided that if at all possible, I wanted to go to
A&M, take animal husbandry and become a ranch
foreman. Dr. Ray Dickerson from Dallas was the
ranch veterinarian. When he made calls to the
ranch, I always made sure that I could be on hand and
assist him. When I finally made financial
arrangements to go to A&M, Dr. Dickerson
suggested I consider going to the veterinary
school. Having much respect for Dr. Dickerson, I
took his advice. My interest to A&M and enrollment
in the School of Veterinary Medicine was one of the
most exciting periods of my life. When I finished
my sophomore year in the veterinary school and Dr.
Ray Dickerson invited me to go to College Station
with him and attend a TVMA meeting, I was
delighted. At this meeting, I met Dr. U.E. Marnie,
and he interviewed me for a summer job at his Alamo
Dog and Cat Hospital in San Antonio, Texas.
Probably the reason I got the job, I didn't ask him
how much he paid, and I suspect that Dr. Dixon told
him that I was not afraid of work. It was a very
exciting summer for me because I gained a great
deal of experience. I was paid $12 per week, and was
furnished a bed in the hospital. And for the use of
the bed, I was granted the privilege of answering
the phone and doorbell during the night and on
holidays. We had long hours, and we provided
services and sold drugs to anyone on a 24-hour,
365-day basis. Dr. Virgil Fondren was employed by
Dr. Marnie at that time. Dr. Marnie did very little
physical work, but he knew what was going on at all
times, and everyone knew that he was the boss. I had
a great deal of respect for his expertise in
veterinary medicine and for his management
skills. Dr. Marnie gave me a position with him
after graduation. After finishing the state
board examination late one cold, rainy January
evening, I boarded the train and arrived in San
Antonio, Texas about sunup the next morning. Dr.
Marnie picked me up at the air depot and allowed me
to put in a full day's work that day after a
sleepless night. About two weeks later, I learned
that I had passed the state board exam and my
license was mailed to me. Since Dr. Brown has
covered Dr. Marnie's life and habits, let me share
a couple of humorous things we enjoyed about him.
Dr. Marnie was almost bald-headed and he had a
small tumor on the top of his head that was very
noticeable. One morning, Dr. Marty came into the
office wearing his usual attire. While he was in
the adjoining room, a client, as I believe this
person to be qualified though as a customer, came
in. He said he wanted to talk to the old man. Since
Dr. Fondren had a little age under his belt, I
inquired which doctor he wanted to see. He stated
that he wanted to see the old man with a grub in his
head. After dealing with the customer, Doctor
Marnie got dressed and left in his car. About two
and a half hours later, he returned with a patch on
his head. He never mentioned a word about having
the tumor removed, and it goes without saying it
was never mentioned by anyone else. Another time.
Everyone was occupied and a client wanted a rabies
vaccination for their dog. They were in a hurry and
was about to leave. Dr. Marty, not wanting to lose a
dollar vaccination, decided to perform the test
himself. Instead of putting a needle on the
syringe from the sterilizer, he picked up a
blunt-ended Tomcat catheter. His vision wasn't
too good at that time. When I got into the exam room
to relieve him, he was still trying to push that
blunt-ended Tomcat catheter through the skin of
that dog. Needless to say, the Tom Gatt catheter
was never placed in with the needles again. Dr.
Marty demanded that everyone, clients,
employees, and even his wife show respect for his
veterinarians. He paid good salaries for that day
and time, and he expected loyalty and hard work in
return. He insisted that his employed
veterinarians become active in organized
veterinary medicine. He had gone through all the
chairs himself. In October of 1943, I left the
employment of Dr. Marnie and became employed by
the United States Army. R.A. Culpepper became my
replacement. In closing, let me tell you that Dr.
Marnie had a great deal of influence on my life,
especially in pursuing an active role in
organized veterinary medicine. I have had over 40
wonderful years of being an associate and partner
to R.D. Brown, And I hope to get to put up with him
many more. Since Dr. Marnie was responsible for
bringing us together, he would be very proud to
know that our relationship has lasted this long.
Thank you. Our relationship has lasted this long.
Thank you.
Now it does, see. And it's running. And so you want
it to pause. Punch it again. It starts again. And
now you want to... I want to erase. Okay, you want to
erase. Then you have to punch stop, eject.